[MUSIC] As we understood from
the previous lesson building and deployment of websites
involves a lot of steps. And we looked at the use
of [INAUDIBLE] scripts for doing the building and deployment tasks. In this lesson,
we will concentrate on task renders. Two in particular, Grunt and
Gulp, and try to understand how they facilitate their automation of
the various web developement tasks. The primary task of a Task Runner is to
enable to us to configure the tasks and then rerun them automatically
as it when request. In the previous Lesson, we show
the user NPM scripts that we set up in the package.json file in order
to automate some of these tasks, including the use of the on
change to automatically run some of these tasks based upon
changes to files that are made. Now, thinking back, we realize
that we are in the Node ecosystem. And what Node enables us to do is
to run JavaScript on the desktop. Now, better luck than people,
the programmers as you know of them, took on the task of using
JavaScript itself to write applications that enable us to set up and
run these tasks automatically. So this is where the task
runners came into the picture. Grunt, Gulp, Cake, Brunch, Broccoli. What's this obsession with food? Well when you're sitting in a single
place for a long time, you develop a big appetite, Grunt and Gulp being
the two most successful in this field. We'll look at both of them in
more detail in this lesson. These enable us to double
up automated tasks for executing and building and
deploying our website. As I mentioned,
the JavaScript based task runners, the two of them in particular that we will deal
with in this lesson are Grunt and Gulp. Grunt operates based
on doing configuration whereas Gulp concentrates more on code. We'll look at the two of them
in more detail as we go along. But both of them pretty much enable us
to accomplish the same kind of tasks. Both are built around plugins. So, both Grunt and
Gulp provide a framework for which you write various plugins that enable
you to perform these kinds of tasks. So Grunt and Gulp together with their
plugins enable us to configure and execute various tasks. If you ask me, is Grunt better or is Gulp
better, that's a tough question to answer. The Grunt people are grunting all over, saying that theirs is
the best way of doing it. Which the Gulp community
finds hard to swallow. Both these communities can easily give
your televangelists a run for their money. But, from my perspective, I look at any of these tools as just
mechanisms to get my work done. So long as it gets my work done,
I'm happy with it. If one makes it easier to
accomplish a set of tasks that has, then I choose the one over the other for
that particular project. So my take is event VM scripts
satisfies you, stable them. If Grunt is the way to go, be my guest. If Gulp is worth satisfies you, take
you a big gulp and you'll be satisfied. So having said that,
let's take a look at both Grunt and Gulp. I will show you how you
perform the same set of tasks that I did with the npm scripts in
the previous lesson and the exercise. By showing you the Grunt and
the Gulp way of doing the same sort of tasks in the exercises
that follow this lecture. [MUSIC]