[MUSIC] Many of the Bootstrap's JavaScript-based
components provide us with a mechanism to control some of the features of these
components by writing JavaScript code, in particular,
by writing code Using the jQuery syntax. So we're going to explore this
index exercise by using some JavaScript-based controls for
our Carousel that we included in the index.html
page in the previous exercise. In the previous exercise, we introduced
this Carousel into our index.html page. What I would like to do in this
exercise is to introduce a couple of control buttons into this Carousel, and then use JavaScript to be able
to activate these buttons. The buttons would be used to pause and play the sliding action of this Carousel. So, including the button
in our Carousel here, we can click a button to stop
the sliding action of the Carousel, and then we can click another button to resume
the sliding action of the Carousel. So, that is what we can
explore in this exercise. To get started on this exercise,
we will go to the index.html page. And right after the left and
right controls of our Carousel, I will introduce a div with
the class button group. So this will enclose a button group of
two buttons here, and then with an ID of, carouselButton and close off the div there. Now, inside this,
I'm going to add in two buttons. So let me add in one button
with the class btn, btn-danger, btn-small, and an id of carousel-pause. So this is going to act as the pause
button, slows off the button there. And for this button,
I'm going to introduce a font as an icon with the class fa fa, pause, and close off the span. So this will introduce a pause button
into the group of Carousel buttons. I'm going to copy this and
paste it again to create another button. That second button,
I'll call btn btn-danger btn-sm, and then this would be carousel-play. And the span class, the button would be if it play here. Let's say the changes and go and
take a quick look at it in the webpage. Taking a look at the buttons as they
exist in our browser, you can see that these two buttons are now positioned
to the left corner of my Carousel. I would like to reposition these
buttons to the right edge, so that it doesn't cause this blue,
empty space underneath the image here. So let me use a couple of CSS properties
to reposition these buttons to the right column of the Carousel. Going to that style start CSS file, let me introduce some CSS code here. So for
the element with the ID carouselButtons, I'm positioning it to the right edge and
bottom, 0 pixel here. So these two and
then the position is absolute. So this will position these buttons
to the right corner of my Carousel. Obviously, just introducing the buttons
into the Carousel will not serve any purpose. Now, we're going to take advantage
of the JavaScript controls that the Carousel provides by writing
a little bit of jQuery code at the bottom of index.html page to
make these buttons do their work. We want to be able to pause and
resume the sliding action of my Carousel. Going to the bottom of the index.html
page, let me introduce some script here. So this script should contain some JavaScript code written in jQuery syntax. So I'm going to say, $(document).ready(function), And this function should contain a couple of functions here to activate the buttons. So I would say, mycarousel. This is the ID of the carousel
that we are introduced, so we would say, carousel, Interval: 2000. So what this does is it sets
the sliding interval of the Carousel to 2000 milliseconds or 2 seconds. So I'm making it a bit faster for the sliding action to take
place in the Carousel. Continue with the jQuery code here. I'm going to now activate that pause
button, so I will say carousel-pause. So that's the id I gave to
the pause button there. So that's the reason for giving the id. So I want to activate the pause button. So I say when the user clicks. So you can see how to read the syntax. So this says, for
the carousel-pause button, if a click action is done by the user,
then execute this particular function that I
specify inside this code here. What is the function that I want to do? I want to be able to, Pause the Carousel. So we would say, carousel('pause'). So now you see how you have
used the jQuery-based controls. The JavaScript controls that are given for
the Bootstrap Carousel component and written some code to be able
to control the Carousel. Similarly, I want to be able
to activate the play button. So when the play button is clicked, I want the sliding action
of the Carousel to resume. So I'm going to simply copy this code,
paste it there. And then I would say carousel-play, click function my carousel and
then the function says carousel('cycle'). That's the way you
specify that the Carousel should resume sliding like before. So this one, this function we
are attaching to the play button here. So with this two, our function's introduced inside
this document ready function. You're all set for
the Carousel to be activated, and the two buttons to be able to control
the behavior of our the Carousel. So let's show the changes, and go and have
a look at the behavior of our Carousel. Going to our page, you now see that
your Carousel is moving very fast, because I set the interval to
2,000 milliseconds or 2 seconds. So every two seconds, you will see
the sliding action of the Carousel. This is definitely annoying. So let me pause that by
clicking on the pause button. So when you click on the pause button,
your Carousel's sliding action is paused. Because when you click on the pause
button, then the function that we introduced in the JavaScript
code comes into action and then pauses the movement of the Carousel. Now, if you want to resume,
the click on the play button and then the Carousel should
resume its motion. So as you can see, the moment you click on
a play button, the carousel starts moving. Now, of course, you can improve more upon
how you create these buttons and so on, but this is a simple way that we can
introduce to control our Carousel. This exercise illustrates to you
how we can use JavaScript code to be able to control our
Bootstrap JavaScript-based components. This is a good time to do a comment of your code with the message
Bootstrap jQuery. [MUSIC]