As a first approach to automating our tasks, let's look at the example of using NPM scripts. Indeed, we had already started using NPM scripts in this course in the earlier lessons. Let's quickly revisit our package.json file to see how we have used a couple of NPM scripts in our package.json file to automate a couple of tasks. Taking a look at our package.json file, you see that in the package.json file, we had this JSON object called scripts. Inside the scripts, we had this property called start that we defined here which we specified as NPM run lite and also we specified this lite as lite-server. So, then you start up your web development. We also started up our lite-server by typing on NPM start at the prompt. Now, what this enabled us is to start up the lite-server in our project directory and start saving up the files from the directory, so that we can view it in a browser. We found this to be a useful approach to be able to watch live the changes that we make to our files being reflected immediately in the browser. Now, in other tasks that we configured and used in the previous lesson was SCSS, which is used for transforming the SCSS code into the corresponding CSS code. So, we wrote this quote unquote NPM script called as SCSS which executed the node sass by looking for the SCSS files in the CSS folder and then transforming them into the corresponding CSS code. And to execute this, we typed NPM run SCSS at the command prompt. So, we've already see that we have used a couple of NPM scripts to automate some tasks during our web development. So to summarize, NPM scripts are supported through this scripts property in the package.json file as we have seen in the example earlier. There are several scripts that are supported. One in particular that is of interest to us is the start-script, so that you can add the prompt type NPM start, and then the corresponding script referred to by the start, will be started. Now, we can define arbitrary scripts in the scripts property and then run them by saying NPM run and the name of the script, as you saw the use of NPM run SCSS or NPM run lite and so on. We are going to leverage this to be able to develop a few additional scripts that will automate a lot of those tasks that we talked about in the previous lecture. So, to help us understand how we can leverage NPM scripts to automate a lot of our web development tasks, we will learn how to configure the NPM scripts in the package.json file, and then execute the scripts, sometimes automatically or sometimes manually invoke the scripts in order to do the building and deployment of our website.