As we have learned in the previous lecture, animations addi in that little bit of spice to your react application making it more user friendly and improving the user experience. In this exercise, we're going to use the react transition group to add in some animations in particular we'll add in PH transitions to our react application. So when you navigate from one page to another page, the pages will slowly slide into place into the view in our react application, in the browser. So this adds a little bit of fun to your react application. Let's see how we can go about adding this animation to our application. To get started on this exercise, let's first install the react transition group into our project. So add the prompt type add Yarn add react transition group at 2.3.0 and add it into our application. And once we have installed that, let's go ahead and configure a little bit of animation in our application, going to the application in Visual Studio. Let me open the app.css and adding a few CSS classes that will help me in the animation here. So I will add in a new class called page enter and this class starts with an opacity of 0.01 and then transform of translate X minus 100% and then one more class here called.page enter active and with an opacity of one, transform of translate X 0%. So it will be in exactly it's position, as in the layout and then the transition period is for all 300 milliseconds and then it so ease-in. It starts quickly and then slowly eases into place. Page enter active. Now, similarly for page exit. So when the page exits from the view, we'll applying the start with an initial opacity of one and then transform of translate X is 0%. So through to the starting point and then page exit active. So when the page completely exits you'll have an opacity of 0.01, almost completely invisible and a transform of translate X 100%. So which means we move a bit to the right side and then that transition will be 3000 milliseconds ease out. Starting slowly but quickly, rapidly moving out. So these classes are introduced because react transition group leverages these classes then it does the animation. Now, how do we apply the animation? To apply the animation, we'll open the main component. We will apply the animation to the main component, where we do the routing. So let me import this from react transition group. Now the reason why I do that is that then I will get suggestions automatically. So a transition group, CSS transition from react transition group. So and we'll make use of these two to apply transitions to other application. Now to apply the transition, they will move into where we have this application defined here. So we will apply the transition to- So whenever you want to apply the animation, we'll surround that by the transition group. So this is where we are doing the routing of the various pages. So to that, we will apply the CSS transition here. So CSS transition we'll say key is this props location key. Now recall that term every component receives 3 match location and history. So that's what we're using, location key. Classnames is page. Classnames, it's not classname. Classnames is page. This is CSS transition's we have specified things and then we'll specify a time out of 300. So 300 milliseconds here and then we'll apply around this switch. So we'll enclose the transition row but CSS transition around that. With this, let's save the changes and then go and see what our application does. Going to the browser, you can see let me use a smaller. So this is more easy to see the transitions, when you see it in a smaller view here. So here you'll see the main page. So when I now move to the about us page you can see how my about us page pushed in from the left in the screen. And similarly when I move to the menu page, the menu also slides in from here. So that's the little bit of animation that I've added in. Of course I am no expert at doing animations, I just figured a few little things by looking at a couple of examples and then said this looks interesting. And so let me apply that and see what it looks like on the screen. So you can see using the react transition group, I've added in this animation whereby your pages animate into place as you navigate to the various views of your single page application. So little interesting transitions in your application. With this we complete this exercise. In this exercise, we have used react transition group to add some transitions to our react application. The page transitions for that single page application in our react application. This is a good time for you to do a good commit with the message react animation.