[MUSIC] Let's now talk about a very useful plugin
in Bootstrap called as the Collapse. We have seen its application
in the navigation bar earlier. We'll revisit that code and
take a quick look at it in more detail. A related component is
called as the Accordion. The Accordion makes use of the Collapse
plugin for its functioning. And we will see that in detail
in the exercise that follows. The Collapse plugin provides
an easy way of revealing and hiding content on your web page. This revealing and
hiding of the content is usually triggered by the user clicking on a button or
a link in your web page. Now you will see many places
where the Collapse kind of behavior is very well
leveraged to show content. We'll revisit our navbar to look at
the Collapse plugin in action, and then we'll also see
an Accordion example next. Going back to our web page, you'll
recall that when we created the navbar in our web page for extra-small screens,
the navbar was collapsed and then it was revealed when we
clicked on the button here. Now this is an example of the use
of the Collapse plugin here. When we look at the code, we will see that
we actually apply the Collapse plugin to the div that contains this navigation bar. Taking a look at the code for our navigation bar that we designed
earlier, you saw that in here, inside the container, we created
this button which is displayed for the extra-small screen sizes by
using the navbar-toggler class. Look at the div that
follows this button here. For the div that follows this button,
we used the collapse class. So this is the use of the Collapse
plugin in our navbar. So what this creates is that
this particular content, our navbar that is enclosed inside
this div, will be collapsed for the extra-small screen sizes. And then together with the Collapse
plugin, this button that appears there will trigger the showing and
hiding of this navbar here. That is why when you look at the button,
you will see that right there, we supply the data-toggle attribute
with the collapse in here, and then the data-target as #Navbar here. And notice that the id for
this div that we applied here is Navbar. So we are specifying essentially that this
button is going to act as the triggering mechanism for this Collapse
plugin to work on this div here. So this is a use of the Collapse
plugin in your web page. Also, we'll look at the other component,
which is the Accordion in Bootstrap. How does an Accordion behave? So this is an example of an Accordion that
we're going to construct in the exercise that follows. So here, you'll see that I have
replaced the tabbed navigation that we did in the previous exercise
by using an Accordion here. The way the Accordion works is that
one piece of content is revealed and the remaining three are hidden. So this uses the Collapse plugin for
this purpose. So when you click on any one of
these other corporate leader's name, then the details of that
corporate leader gets revealed and the remaining three gets hidden. So this is the Accordion behavior here. If you are familiar with an accordion, the musical instrument, you know how
the bellows of the accordion work. So this is, in some sense, behaving
like the bellows of the accordion. So that's the reason why this component is
referred to as an Accordion in Bootstrap. One more example of the Collapse plugin
in use is on your own course website. So if you go to your course website, and then you go into the content
of your course website and start viewing the content here,
you will notice that on the left side, you have a navigation that comes
into picture on the left side. So this is the navigation there. So when you click on each one of them,
you notice how the content in here is hidden and revealed by clicking
on each of these links there. So this is like the Collapse
plugin that we saw in Bootstrap. Although, of course, the Coursera
page actually doesn't use Bootstrap. We'll move to the next exercise
where we will see how we construct the Accordion for showing our
corporate leadership information. [MUSIC]