[MUSIC] Let us now try to understand
several mechanisms to enable us to display information to the users
overlaying the content of your web page. So here we'll look at three different
constructs that are available in Bootstrap called tooltips, popovers, and modals. So what are tooltips, popovers and
modals and how are they useful? We'll look at some basic ideas first ,and
then we'll go on to look at some examples. In the exercise that follows,
we'll use tooltips and modals in our web page, and
we'll look at an example of popovers. So, as I mentioned, tooltips, popovers,
and modals are a way of revealing content to the users, when the user interacts
with certain elements on your web page. Say for example when the user's mouse clicks on a button, or
hovers over a button, or clicks on a link, or reaches a certain
point on your web page. So all these will trigger information
to be displayed to the users. So in this case, the information is displayed as
an overlay on top of your web page. So the underlying content of
the web page is still there, but this is laid out on top of
the underlying content. So in terms of flexibility, tooltips
are the simplest to implement, but at the same time have limited flexibility
in how they can display information. Popovers are more flexible than tooltips,
but they also have their own limitations. Modals give you the most
extensive support for displaying content in
a wide variety of ways. As an example, let's go to our
webpage that we have been working on. You see that when we hover our
mouse pointer onto this button. You see this message popping
up on the screen here, with some additional information. This is an example of a tooltip. This allows you to display smaller
amounts of information to the users. So for example if you are trying to
guide users through your website and want them to know what happens when you
click various locations any web page, these maybe a good way of reminding
them of what is expected. So you could easily design for example, walkthroughs of your website using
these tooltips to indicate to users. If you want a bit more
detailed information, then popovers would be more useful. The same example, implement and
using a popover would look like this. Now in this case, you will have to explicitly click
on the button to show the popover. So in that case, the popover is shown
with some title information, and then the actual content at
the bottom in that popover. Now, dismissing the popover will require
you again to click on the bottom there. So this is the behavior of a popover. In some circumstances,
popovers are more useful than tooltips. Our third kind of data
overlay is the modal. A modal allows you to present more detailed information to the users
than a tooltip and popover. The content of the modal is itself divided
into a header, body, and the footer. And the modal itself can contain
a lot more detailed information. And you can use the entire Bootstrap grid, inside the modal body,
to organize the actual content. We look at a couple of examples
of the use of modals next. Going to our web page,
you will see that on the right hand side, here we have a link here called Login. So when you click on that link,
you will notice that this modal with their login form is
popped up on the screen. So this is the typical
behavior of a modal. And so
here you can type in the information, and then click on the Sign In button
to sign in to your website. Going to your Coursera page, here is
a real life example of the use of a modal. So for example,
if you click on the Log In button here, you can see that on Coursera,
a form pops up on the screen. So this is another use of
a modal in your web page. Now that you have seen examples of
tooltips, popovers, and modals, let's go to the next exercise, where we'll
create a tooltip on our index.html page. We'll also create a modal that allows
the user to type in information for logging in into our web page. [MUSIC]