Now that we have examined React
briefly in the previous two lectures, I'm sure you're curious about
getting started with React, getting your hands dirty with
starting out on a React application. So in this exercise, we will look at
how we will get started with React. I'm sure by now your computer is
already configured with Note and you have access to NPM,
the package manager that comes with Note. Just like NPM, Yarn is yet another package manager that is very
useful, especially in the React. In this course I'm going to use Yarn for
installing and downloading all my Node modules for
my React application. If you choose to instead stay
with NPM that is perfectly fine. You can use NPMto accomplish
exactly the same thing. And so whenever I use Yarn, I will
also remind you about how you can use NPM to do exactly the same set of
commands that you do with Yarn. So if you choose to use Yarn, it is important to get started first
installing Yarn on your computer. So where do we get ahold of Yarn? If you choose to use Yarn instead
of NPM for your React application, then I would suggest you go to this
site called yarnpackage.com and then you Instructions there on how
to install Yarn on your computer. So going to the getting started
page you will see the installation instructions right there for
your specific operating system. And so please follow along
the instructions if you choose to use Yarn instead of using NPM. If you choose to use NPM
that is perfectly fine. As I said, I will tell you both
approaches as we go along in the exercises of this course, but
I find that Yarn is much better suited when I am working
with the React application. So that's why I choose to use Yarn. So go ahead and
install Yarn on your computer as specified in the installation
instructions here. If you go to the React site and
then look up the documentation and especially in the installation, you would notice that there is a link
to saying add React to a new app. And when you click on
that the approach that is suggested by React is to
use this create React app. Which they say is the best way of
starting out building a new React single page application. In this course that is indeed
the approach that I am going to take in order to make use of React with
in this particular course. To get started open a terminal window or a command window on your computer and at the prompt type npm install -g create-react-app@1.5.2. As we go through this course,
I will specify exact versions of the various NPM packages that
I will use in this course. This is to ensure that when
you go through this course, you will install the exact same versions
of the NPM packages that I use in my course so that your journey
through this course will be painless. If you are doing this installation
on a Mac or a Linux machine, don't forget to put pseudo in
front of the NPM install because we are installing this as
a global package here. And wait for
the installation to be completed. So once this is completed as you can see, I am using create-react-app
version 1.5.2 in this course. After you install create-react-app you
may need to restart your terminal or your command window in order for the create-react-app command to
be made available at your prompt. So once you get restarted
with your terminal or your command window at the prompt
type create-react-app --help and that will print out a set
of instructions on how we can use the create react app
to create a React application. So once we understand this
then we will get started creating our first React application. So to create our first React application
let me go to a convenient location on my computer. So I will go into my
documents Coursera folder. And in this folder I will create
a new subfolder named React. So let me create a new
subfolder named React. Again, if you are using a Windows machine,
you can appropriately create the react some folder and
then move into the React subfolder. And as you notice,
this is empty at this moment. To scaffold out your very
first React application at the prompt type create-react-app and then the name of your
application as confusion. It will become more clear to you
why I named this application as confusion as you go through the rest
of this course, and wait for the create-react-app to create
your React application. It will take some time for
this to complete its work. Once it is completed doing
its work you will notice that there will be a sub folder
in there named confusion. So move into this subfolder and then to
get started on your React application. You can just type yarn start or
if you are using NPM you just type npm start and
your React application will start up, and be served using that
built-in server that is part of the create-react-app ecosystem. And once your react application
is compiled then it'll become available at this address. So go to a browser and
type this address into the address bar and then you will be able to
view your React application. Going to my browser I have typed in
that address into my address bar. And then you see the resulting
React application here. We will examine the details of this
React application in the next lecture. If you are going to initialize
a git repository for your React application,
which I would strongly suggest you do. So then, go to the confusion
folder in another terminal tab or another command window. And the at the prompt type git init
to initialize the git repository and then we can do a git status to look
at the states of our folder and then do a git add space
dot to add all the files from the git repository
into my git staging area. And then again, if I do git status,
you'll see all the files that have been checked into
the staging area of my git. And then let's do a git commit, so at the prompt type git
commit- m "Initial Setup. So this is the starting point for
our React application. And so then when you say git
status you will see that the your commit has been saved
into the git repository. And then you can do git log and note that your very first commit has
been put into the git repository there. Thereafter you can synchronize this
git repository with an online git repository either on GitHub or
on bitbucket. Make sure that your get repository
is a private repository. With this we complete this very
first exercise where we have used create-react-app to scaffold out
our very first React application. We will examine what has been
scaffolded out in the next lecture and thereafter we will start working on
further developing our React application. [MUSIC]