[MUSIC] Let's now talk about navigation. What is navigation, why is navigation
important for your website? And how do you we provide navigation
information on your website? So, these are the question that we will
try to answer In this particular lecture. The first obvious question
that comes to your mind is, why do we need to have website navigation? As you realize,
most websites are no longer single pages. Of course,
there do exist those single page websites like your professor's webpage In
your computer science department. But most websites usually
contain more than one page. As we have seen with our confusion
website that we are building, we already have added a second
page called aboutus.html page. Now the way we navigated to
the aboutus.html page was to explicitly type that into
the address bar of our browser. But that is a very inconvenient
way of navigating to your website. It would make a lot more sense to
provide an intuitive means for the users to navigate to your website. This intuitive means could be provided by
many different approaches, the navigation bar being one of the most common
methods of indicating this information. So, we'll look at several common
ways of providing navigation patterns on typical websites. In this context, you often hear people
talking about information architecture. The information architecture begins
with the structure of the system, with respect to the way the information
is organized, labelled. And navigation is provided through
the content or through this information. Now information architecture,
by itself, is a whole big field. It is beyond the scope of this course
to cover information architect. But, in case you are interested
in organizing and providing information to users through,
for example, websites, then I have provided you with
some links in the additional resources that you can go and
read for further knowledge. But in any case,
when you're designing a website, it is important to understand the need to design the information navigation
structures within your website. And this organization of information
within your website also dictates what kind of navigational aids
you provide on your website, and based on how that
information is organized. Typically, a website would be organized
in some kind of a tree structured or a hierarchical fashion. And that automatically dictates to you how you would design navigational
support within your website. The use of a navigation bar,
breadcrumbs, and other means of navigation are very,
very essential for enabling users to be able to see
various parts of your website. When you visit most websites you will
often look for the navigation bar. This is some kind of a bar that is
typically attached at the top of the website, or sometimes at the bottom
of the website, or sometimes on the side, that provides you with sufficient
pointers towards the kind of information that you
can access on this site. So your navigation bar will typically
contain links to various pages that form part of your website. So a typical navigation bar,
how do you go about designing this? When you design a typical navigation bar,
you should obviously keep in mind some dos and don'ts
about how you design navigation bars. First is that you use user-friendly and simple terms within your navigation
bar to indicate the various links that the users can follow within
your website to reach information.. You should provide
a standardized navigation, so that wherever the user is
within your website hierarchy, they'll always know how to go back to
the homepage, how to go to the next, previous, or up and
down the hierarchy of some sort. So indicating the location of the user within the hierarchy of your
website is very, very useful to provide a user-friendly way
of navigating your websites. Also, there are some standard
conventions that people follow when these navigation bars are designed. Typically, when you have
the logo of your website or your company included in your navigation
bar, a click on these logos or a home button should take you back to
the topmost level of the hierarchy or the home page of your website,
typically the index.html page. Some of the don'ts that you should keep in
mind is that you should not have too many choices in your navigation bar. How many is too many? If you find that navigating using your
navigation bars is too cumbersome, then that means that there are too
many options on your navigation bar. Provide a reasonable set of choices within
your navigation bar so that you can indicate the directions that the user can
follow in navigating through your website. And when you use these navigation
elements in your navigation bar, don’t use generic labels,
use meaningful labels. For example,
if you put a label named product in your navigation bar, people will be confused
about what you mean by product. Or say, if you put a service in your
navigation bar, they may be confused. What kind of service are you providing? It will be more meaningful to
give a more descriptive term In your headers in your navigation bar. Yet another means of
providing navigation for users is to provide what
is called as breadcrumbs. These are typically provided
somewhere in that page, typical towards the top
edge of the webpage, closer to the heading of that webpage. The breadcrumbs sort of indicate
some kind of a navigational hierarchy within which you're
currently In your website. So this provides a secondary
navigation option for your website. So this could be placed somewhere
below the primary navigation. It may indicate the hierarchy of
pages through which you have gone. And the current location may
be highlighted specifically in the breadcrumb there. So various ways that
people can use breadcrumbs include providing a path based navigation. Say, for example, if you have a user
going through a set of steps in order to complete a task on your website, say for
example, reserving a airline ticket. Then you could use a breadcrumb
approach for indicating to them what step the user is currently
on in the sequence of steps. Similarly, if you are providing
your location based navigation for hierarchical approach within your website. So, what level of hierarchy you are in and
what is the upper part towards the root of your hierarchy, so that
could be indicated by your breadcrumbs. Your breadcrumb could also be attribute
based, meaning that you provide a set of choices indicated in your breadcrumb
for the user at the current point of time. A typical front-end UI
framework provides many other ways of providing
navigation on your webpages. These include tabs, pills,
pagination, dropdowns, accordions, tags, and
SchrollSpy, and Affix. We'll look at some of these in
a bit more detail as we go through the various lessons in the modules
that follow this particular lesson. [MUSIC]