[MUSIC] Let us now talk about icon fonts. What are they? How are they useful? And how do we make use of them
in designing our website? Icon fonts provide a very
flexible way of including tiny images into our web pages that
can be styled just like text. So that is the reason
icon fonts prove very, very useful in designing websites. Using icon fonts,
you can take a web page like this and quickly turn it into a web page like this. Note the use of icons together
with the text in the nav bar, and then when you scroll
down to the footer, you can see more icons
being used in the footer. And also your social media links are now
replaced by social media buttons here. So these are the changes that icon fonts
will enable you to do to your website. So as I briefly mentioned earlier,
icon fonts are a set of symbols or glyphs that can be used
in your website design. These can be used just like regular fonts, just like regular text fonts
that you use in your website. Their advantage is that
you can style them and then expand and contract them and
use all typical stylings that you use on your text,
for your icons also. They are seen as a popular
lightweight replacement for simple graphics that you
can use in your web pages, simply graphics or
images that you can use in your web pages. And they are very,
very useful in designing your web pages. There are many icon font packs
that are available in the market. One of the most popular
ones is Font Awesome, which I'm going to talk about next. Font Awesome, as I say,
is a very popular icon font. It is available free for
use in designing your page design. It has been extensively used
by many different websites. We'll learn how to
download Font Awesome and then use it in web page in the exercise
that follows this lecture. Using Font Awesome in your
webpage is as simple as using some classes that
are applied to an i, or a span tag in your web page HTML code. So once you include the CSS and the font files that are available
through Font Awesome, then it is very straightforward to make
use of Font Awesome in your pages. Another common feature
that you would see on web pages is the use of social site
buttons there like Facebook, Twitter, Google+, and
YouTube and many others. Now fortunately for us,
there is this other CSS file called bootstrap-social
that you can download and make use of, including various social media site buttons into your web page. We will see the use of bootstrap-social
in the exercise that follows. Once you download the bootstrap-social css
file, you include that in your web page. And then together with
the Font Awesome icons, you can combine that with
bootstrap social classes to include various social media
buttons on your web pages. So without further ado,
let's move to the next exercise where we're going to use both Font Awesome and
bootstrap-social, a modified version of
bootstrap-social.css file that I provide on the exercise instructions
that you should download and include in your confusion project and
make use of it in the exercise. [MUSIC]