[MUSIC] Let's briefly discuss
about bootstrap tables. What does bootstrap bring to styling
tables that we include in our web pages? We'll also look at another bootstrap
component called as bootstrap card, which is a very versatile component for
displaying content. There may be many occasions where
you want to present tabular content on your web page. Tables were essentially designed for that purpose, but
soon there after web page designers hijacked tables into using for designing and
laying out content in the pages. Because inherently,
the original HTML did not have the ability to properly lay
out content in a web page. Of course, with the arrival of grid-based
layouts like the bootstrap grid, the tables have been turned on tables. And increasingly,
people are preferring not to use tables as a main sort of building
content layout in web pages. Grid-based layouts are better designed for
this purpose. Here is an example of what we
can do to a standard HTML table by using several classes that
bootstrap provides for styling tables. So here, you can see that
the set apart by displaying it in darker color and
then the rows themselves are highlighted by displaying alternate rows
with different backups. The table used in
bootstrap based that page is similar to how you use
tables in standard HTML pages. But of course,
you apply the class table which is supported in bootstrap to
a standard table tech. In addition, bootstrap provides many
different classes for styling tables like, table striped for zebra striped tables
as we saw in the example earlier. Similarly, we have table bordered for
borders. Tables, table-hover, table-sm for
tables with cell padding cut in half. And similarly, table-responsive can
be applied to a div around tables, so that the tables can be made responsive
where it is shown on smaller screen sizes. The tables will then be able to
scroll horizontally and vertically. Also, you could apply backgrounds
to individual row of tables or entire tables themselves. Here are a couple of examples of
how you could apply a background color to a particular row or
a particular cell in table. Another versatile component
that is available in bootstrap is a bootstrap card. Sometimes, you may want to highlight
some content on your web page. So this is where bootstrap
comes come to your aid. In Bootstrap card is a versatile
component that allows you to display content in myriads of ways. You would notice that it allows
you to have headers for cards. You can also include images in cards. You can include images in
the background of cards. You can even change
the background colors of cards. Many features are supported by cards. Here are a couple of examples of cards
that we will see in the exercises later. We will also see more versatile us
of cards in later exercises and other courses in this specialization. Card is a very important company
that can be effectively used for displaying content. It's time to move on to the next
exercise where we will use tables and cards to display some
content in our web page. [MUSIC]