[MUSIC] Front-end Web UI Frameworks
are becoming their go-to approach for designing and
implementing their recent websites. Let's ask ourselves what exactly
are front-end Web UI Frameworks, and learn a little more
details about them. Next, so obviously in this lesson we're going to ask
ourselves, what are front-end frameworks? What do they contain? What are some of the popular
front-end UI frameworks? And why do we need to make use of
front-end UI frameworks when we design our websites? So what are front-end web UI frameworks? Let's take a step backwards, and imagine that you only know HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript. If you were asked to design a new website,
you would obviously go about constructing and implementing the entire website
Using the technical skills that you have based on your knowledge of HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript. You would often realize
that there are many repeated components that you
would use on your website. And you would end up designing
your own set of CSS classes. You will be designing
JavaScript based component. And then once you get
a group of these together, every time you need to design a new
website you would be making use of these predefined sets of CSS classes and JavaScript based components to
quickly implement a new website. Why not take this to
its logical conclusion? How about, if we design an entire
framework that consists of ready to use HTML, CSS, and
JavaScript placed web UI components. So, here, a front-end web UI framework may define a bunch of CSS classes that will enable us to include
components like Buttons, Tables, Navigation bars,
Dropdowns, Alerts, Modals, Tabs, Accordions and many more. And quickly enable us to design and
implement a website. So this is what a front-end
web UI framework accomplishes. It is a collection of
all these components. Not only that,
it gives you a method of defining consistent typography that you can use for
your entire website design. And enables you to quickly scaffold out a website or the pitch. If you search for
front-end web frameworks, you would find a plethora of
them out there in the Internet. Now several people have
done their own service of all these different web UI frameworks, and have published their top ten
lists of front-end UI frameworks. This is one such that you may or may not agree with this ranking, but Bootstrap happens to be the most popular
among all the front-end web UI frameworks. Bootstrap consistently
ranks as the number one in many of the lists of
front end web UI frameworks. The remaining among this list may vary,
but you would often find Semantic-UI, Foundation by Zerp,
Materialize, Material UI, and some of these others appearing
in many of those top-end lists. The next obvious question is, why would you want to use
front-end web UI frameworks? First and foremost, they provide you with
a consistent way of designing websites. And, most of these front-end frameworks support what is called as
responsive web design. We will examine more about responsive
web design in the next lesson, but quickly summarizing it, you don't realize
that your website may be accessed from various kinds of devices of
different screen savers ranging from small mobile phones all the way
to up to a full fledged desktop. You want to be able to design your
website to automatically adapt itself to cater to the size
constraints of each of these different devices,
from which your website is being accessed. So responsive web design is
concerned about this aspect. The second issue that most of
these Franken frameworks try to address is cross browser compatibility. If you have played around with
browsers as much as I have done, I'm pretty sure you've
come to realize that no two browsers render the same
website exactly the same way. So when you design a website
to render consistently across many different browsers, you
are going to be facing an uphill battle. Now these front-end frameworks have
managed to address most of these idiosyncrasies of the different browsers
in such a way that you can deliver consistent rendering of your
website on different browsers. So that's the second reason
why you may want to resort to using a Front-End Web UI framework. And the third aspect of course is that
when you need to design a website, you're always going to be
under terrible time pressure. So increasing your productivity so that you don't waste your energy and
time on wasteful configuration issues of those
individual components of your website. Instead, let that be taken care of by a consistently designed
front-end web UI framework. So that saves you a lot of time in
terms of implementing your website. They have sacked. And finally, of course, most of these front-end UI frameworks that
are all there have their own community. They are users that use these
frameworks for implementing websites. So this community of users
will provide you with a very efficient way of being able
to solve issues that you may encounter when you're applying anyone of
this frameworks for your website design. So given these different advantages, why would you not want to resort to
using a front-end web UI framework? With this understanding of
front-end web UI frameworks, let's now proceed forward to
learn more about Bootstrap, the most popular front
end web UI framework. [MUSIC]